Let's wrap up our password class.
In this video, we're going to implement the static compare method right here.
So we're going to take some stored password out of our database and some supplied password as well.
And going back over to the diagram we were just looking at, remember, we're going to hash the supplied
password, get the hash version, we'll then compare it to the one stored inside of our database.
And if they are equal, that means that the user must have given us the correct password.
Something that's just kind of complicating this a little bit.
The stored password right here is whatever we are storing tied to our user inside the database.
So it's going to be the output of two hash as a part of that two hash process.
We are not only generating a hash password, but we are also concatenating on there at the very end,
separated by that little dot, something called the salt as well.
The salt is part of the actual hashing process.
So stored password right here is not just the hash password, it's not just that part.
It is the hash password plus a period and the salt at the very end.
So we're going to accommodate for that.
On the very first line by saying hashed password.
And salt are coming from stored password split on like so.
So now hash password is the actual truly hash password that is stored in our database.
And salt is the salt that we generated during the initial hashing process.
I know this stuff is confusing.
Again, really assuming that you have seen haphazard hashing and salting and all this stuff at least
once before.
So after that, we're going to go ahead and go through the same exact password hashing process on the
supplied password.
So we are going to write out the same line as up here rather than retyping it.
I'm just going to copy that and paste it.
I am going to change password right there to the actual argument name of supplied password.
I'm going to make sure I also mark this function as a sync.
And then finally we now have the original hash password, plus a buffer containing the newly hash password,
the one that the user just applied.
So we're going to take the buffer, turn it into a string, and then compare it against the hash one.
I'm going to return.
Buffed to string converted to a hex hexadecimal string.
I'm not going to compare its quality versus the stored hashed password like so.
And that is it.
So we've got our class password all put together.
Now we've got the ability to hash the password and we've got the ability to compare to as well.
So now the last thing we have to do is go back over to our user model.
We're going to import that password manager class we just put together and we're going to wire it up
inside of this user model to make sure that we automatically hash a password whenever we attempt to
save a user to our database.